---
layout: post
title: "Serve"
date: 2013-09-15 10:59
comments: true
categories: alphabet-supremacy
---

I'm hijacking this week's carefully chosen word to talk about changes to the
way I'm serving my blogs, but before I get there, have some random musings.

It's a funny old word, 'serve'.  We use it to talk about another computer, a
server, that does things for your computer, a client.

When we use "serve" of people, we almost always have a hierarchy in mind.  The
one who serves is lower than the one being served.

And yet, sometimes we grant people the title "servant" in order to do them
honour.  Thus the most powerful person in Britian is the "first servant", or
Prime Minister.  This is perhaps due to a
[Christian legacy](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Mark%2010:42-45&version=NIV).

Certainly with computers on the web, it's this way.  Servers act only on the
initiative of their client, and well run services put the needs of their
clients well ahead of their own.  It's far from a perfect metaphor, since
well-behaved clients do exactly what they are told.

Curiously, the metaphor of the hierarchy is inverted.  While a human servant
is considered below a human master, a computer client invariably downloads
from its server, or pushes _up_ to its server, thus placing the server above
the client.

<!-- more -->

## What's happened?

I've moved this blog and [my technical blog](http://code.mumak.net) over to
[Octopress](http://octopress.org), which is a very geeky way of blogging that
allows me to write blog posts using the tools I use to write code.

## Why the change?

### More fun while writing

Blogger is nice for what it is, but it's actually a hassle to use for
composition.  It doesn't have rich styles for formatting, doesn't allow
footnotes, and has very poor support for managing literal line breaks, which
is critically important when you are writing about source code.

It has great, built-in support for analysing the traffic that comes to the
site, but that's not something that's very useful to me.  It turns out, gentle
reader, that you are one of a very select group.

My hope is that by serving my blogs with fresher technologies that I actually
enjoy using, and by lowering the barrier to publication, I'll have something
that is more interesting to me and perhaps more interesting to others.

### Clearer online presence

I'm not at all happy with [mumak.net](http://mumak.net).  I want it to be
focused on my technical and open source interests and to incorporate my
technical blog, currently served from [code.mumak.net](http://code.mumak.net).

The [life.mumak.net](http://life.mumak.net) blog and related content would
then move to my halfwise domains, which aren't anywhere near as established.

The hope is that this will let me do a better job with both.

### Ramping up technical presence

The
[Alphabet Supremacy](http://life.mumak.net/2013/01/the-alphabet-supremacy.html)
project has meant that almost all of my writing time has been devoted to
non-technical things.  It's fun, but my appetite for open source hacking and
for technical writing has been whetted by stimulating conversations at
[work](http://www.google.com/about/jobs/) and (perversely but predictably) by
being compelled to write about other things.

I've been using [ThoughtStreams](https://thoughtstreams.io/jml/) to help get
some of that stuff drafted.  The switch in technologies will make moving that
to my own domains easier.

## Technical details

I tried [ruhoh](http://ruhoh.com/) initially, but found it to be rather
complicated, and struggled to find themes that I didn't hate.  Some folk
talked about [liquidluck](http://liquidluck.readthedocs.org/en/latest/), which
I would like because it's written in Python and thus more hackable by me, but
after some initial struggles I decided to go with something a little more
popular.

Thus, [octopress](http://octopress.org) was the next port of call and so far
seems to have worked out OK.  Perhaps I'll experiment with moving to
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) or try liquidluck again.  Now that I'm off
blogger and have all of my data in relatively parseable formats, it's much
easier to experiment.

The new blog pages are being served by [Heroku](http://www.heroku.com/), in a
manner which I do not yet understand.  I picked it because it's free, because
there were
[instructions in the octopress documentation](http://octopress.org/docs/deploying/heroku/),
because I already have github pages and didn't want to bother figuring out
have to have three different site, ad I _really_ don't want to host things
myself anymore.

## What happened to the comments?

All of the existing comments are still on the site, but new comments are
disabled for now, and possibly forever.  If you think I should put them back
on, please feel free to make your case on the social network of your choice.

Anyway, please let me know if your blog reading experience is disrupted in any
way.  I've tried hard to keep all of the old links still working, but it's
really easy to make mistakes.

