---
layout: post
title: "Shelter"
date: 2013-09-22 14:17
comments: true
categories: alphabet-supremacy
---

We don't have to read
[_A Canticle for Leibowitz_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Canticle_for_Leibowitz)
for long before we get to the fallout shelter.

* * * *

**Warning:** spoilers follow.  _A Canticle for Leibowitz_ is a great book, and
it would be a great pity if you were to read this little essay without reading
the book first.  I can't get
[Octopress's excerpt feature](http://octopress.org/docs/blogging/plugins/) to
work yet, so here's the warning again:

**Spoilers follow.  Stop reading now.**

* * * *

<!--more-->

When we get there, we discover the remnants of a civilization that managed to
incinerate itself despite all of its wealth, power, and knowledge.  All that
remains within the crumbling concrete structure are bones and a few scraps of
paper.

It would not be fair to say that _Canticle_ is primarily about the question of
where we can find safety -- if anything, it is about the two-edged nature of
knowledge -- but places of refuge are a theme throughout the book, and their
problems mirror the problems of the human condition.

The fallout shelter itself is long, long disused.  When Brother Francis finds
it, he marvels at its engineering and is boggled by its terminology, thinking
perhaps that a fallout is a kind of salamander.  And yet, for all of its
technological wonder, he finds in it the bones of its occupants.  As everyone
who lives after the "flame deluge" knows, knowledge is not enough to spare one
from destruction.

And yet, Brother Francis belongs to an order of monks dedicated to preserving
the knowledge of the past.  Their abbey guards sacred, original texts – the
Memorabilia – protecting it both from the ravages of time and from an angry
populace that has come to resent all book-learning.

Protecting it also from kings.  Much as in
[Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality](http://hpmor.org), the monks
come to believe that scientific knowledge will inevitably be abused by those
with political power.  Thus they are divided, for although they begin by
sheltering this knowledge from a hurt and angry world, they must eventualy do
their best from allowing a greedy, gluttonous world to devour it, and consume
it for its own violent purposes.

Thus, that which shelters also imprisons.  That which makes the abbey a place
of safety for scholars, monks, and ancient texts also makes it an ideal
military outpost.

Even the spiritual safety of the Church is questioned.  Yes, there is much
wisdom there, and a long, long historical perspective that scientists and
politicians seem to lack.  But there is also bickering and infighting, spying
and political intrigue, cowardice and lying.

At one point, [Miller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_M._Miller,_Jr.)
refers to a line from G. K. Chesterton.  When asked "what is wrong with the
world?", Chesterton replied, "I am".  Whether in a monastery or a university
or a parliament or a hermit's hut, we can find no true shelter, for we always
bring the storm within ourselves.

The final parts of the book pit the ultimate forms of shelter against each
other.  On one side, a doctor contends for the merciful sleep of death, where
one is surely safe from the very real suffering in this life.  On the other
side, a priest offers the hope of salvation.  Where should one seek refuge?
In _Canticle_, Miller raises the question, and leaves us to find our own
answer.
