---
layout: post
title: "Reading 2013Q4"
date: 2013-10-01 12:51
comments: true
categories: reading
---

Somewhat fewer books this quarter, mostly due to wading through _Europe_, a
massive single-volume tome on Europe's history.

* _Stranger Things Happen_, Kelly Link
* _True Grit_, Charles Portis
* _A Canticle for Leibowitz_, Walter M. Miller Jr.
* _The Tyrant's Law_, Daniel Abraham
* _The King's Blood_, Daniel Abraham
* _The Dragon's Path_, Daniel Abraham
* _Europe: A History_, Norman Davies
* _Austerity: The History of a Dangerous Idea_, Mark Blyth
* _Broken Homes_, Ben Aaronovitch
* _Seasons of War_, Daniel Abraham
* _Shadow and Betrayal_, Daniel Abraham

The last two Daniel Abraham books are published as four separate volumes in
the US.  His books are really enjoyable and intelligent, and if you are into
Joe Abercrombie, Peter Brett, George R. R. Martin, or Robin Hobb, you'll
probably like them.

_A Canticle for Leibowitz_ is funny, thoughtful, and a classic use of science
fiction to question our society and our human nature.

_True Grit_ is wonderful, but the Coen brothers' film is so faithful that I
felt like I was reading an echo.

Ben Aaronovitch continues to amuse.  There should be more high quality,
London-based fantasy police procedurals.

I haven't been able to shut up about _Austerity_, largely because I've needed
to talk to process the ideas.  It basically changed my ideas about cutting
government spending, and has dispelled whatever lingering suspicions I had
that a gold standard would be a good idea.

I started reading _Don Quixote_ but am making slow, slow progress.  It's
episodic, so I'm happy to dip in and out of it.
